## Chapter 3 Moving Around

Start: 2014-02-16 11:40:36 || Page: 057
  End: 2014-02-16 12:10:47 || Page: 061
 Cost: 30m                 || Page: 004
Start: 2014-02-16 16:52:15 || Page: 061
  End: 2014-02-16 17:17:11 || Page: 067
 Cost: 25m                 || Page: 007

Not Done Question:
- *what is paragraph? section?*

z [Enter] - move current line to top of screen and scroll.
z.        - move current line to center of screen and scroll.
z-        - move current line to bottom of screen and scroll.

### Move By textblock

`e`  move to the end of word.
`E`  move to the end of word(ignore punctuation).
`(`  move to the beginning of current sentence.
`)` move to the beginning of next sentence.
`{` move to the beginning of current paragraph.
`}` move to the beginning of next paragraph.
`[[` move to the beginning of current section.
`]]` move to the beginning of next section.


- Searching and changing
`/` search forward.
`?` search backward.
`d?move` delete from before the cursor up to and through the word move

- current line searches
`fx` find(move cursor to) next occurence of x in the line, where x 
stands for any character.
`Fx` find(move cursor to) previous occurence of x in the line.
`tx` find(move cursor to) character before next occurence of x in line. 
`Tx` find(move cursor to) character after next occurence of x in line. 
`;` repeat previous find command in same direction.
`,` repeat previous find command in opposite direction.

- the `G`(go to)command
`44G` go to line 44, must `:set nu` first to see the line number.
``  return you to your original position(the position where you issued the
    last `G` command.)
`''`  return to the beginning of line, much like ``.

