title: 10月份第3周 
slug: 2012-10-week-3
date: 2012-10-21
category: Weekly
tags: python, tuples, files

# Python(tuples, files, and everything else.)

## Tuples

* Ordered collection of objects.
* Accessed by offset.
* Immutable(do not allow in place change.).
* Fixed length, arbitrarily nestable, heterogeneous(can combine of different objects.).
* Array of object references.

*tuples can be used as a dict key*

## Files

### Open files.

        f = open('myfile.txt', 'r') # open a file named 'myfile.txt' for reading.
        # operation with with.
        with open('myfile.txt') as f:
            for line in f:
                print line

### Using files.

* File iterator are best for reading.
* Content is strings not objects.
* Close is optional.
* File are buffered and seekable.

### Store and parsing python objects in files.
Python objects must be converted to strings before storing in a file.

*Native python object could be stored with the 'pickle' module*

### To be careful

* Content readed by line, don't forget the '\n' at the end of line.


## Everything else.

### Type Categories Revisited.
* Objects shared operations according to their category.
* Only mutable(list, dictionaries and sets.) objects may be changed in place.
* Files export only methods, so mutability doesn't really apply to them.

### Object Flexibility.
* List, tuples, dictionary can hold any type of objects.
* List, tuples, dictionary can be arbitrarily nested.
* List, dictionary can dynamic shrink and grow.

### References Versus Copies
use deepcopy to copy objects nestable.

*slice* just copy the top level of object.

### Comparison, Equality and Truth.

#### Comparison
按照ascII表的顺序，自左往右比较值的大小。碰到第一个不同的值时开始比较大小。

#### Equality
*==* test the value that var reference is equal or not?
*is* test whether the two object is the same or not?

#### Truth
*number* true if not zero.
*object* true if not none.


